wa aqoolu fil qur'ani ma jaat bihi ayatuhu fahuwa al-kareemul munzalu
wa aqoolu qalallahu jalla jalaluhu wal-mustafah al-hadi walaa at-awwalu
alhamdulillahi rabbil alameen, lahul hamdul hasan wa al-thana wal-jameel wa ashadu an la ilaha illa allahu wahdahu la sharika lah
yaqulu al-haqqa wa hua yuhdi al-sabeel wa ashadu anna Muhammadan abduhu wa rasuluhu
sallallahu alihi wa ala alihi wa ashabihi wa attabi'ina lahum bi ihsanin ila yawm al-deen amma ba'd
insha'Allah wa ta'ala today we're going to start a series in which I will be speaking about the life and the biography of the 10 that were promised Jannah
In Jannah insha'Allah wa ta'ala I'm going to start with Abu Bakr al-Siddiq radiAllahu ta'ala anhu
Abu Bakr al-Siddiq is khalifatu rasulillahi sallallahu alayhi wa sallamah
When the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallamah died he took over
He was the successor of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam and his name is Abdullah
And some of the scholars they said his name is Atiq ibn Abi Quhafah, Uthman ibn Aamir, ibn Aamir, ibn Ka'ab, ibn Sa'ad, ibn Taymi, ibn Murrah, ibn Ka'ab, ibn Luayn al-Qurashi al-Taymiyyu radiAllahu ta'ala anhu
That's his full name
He meets the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallamah in Taymi ibn Murrah that's where they come together him and the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallamah
He died a year 13 Hijriya
That's when he passed away and he died
radiAllahu ta'ala anhu
His daughter Aisha radiAllahu ta'ala anha she said
Ismuhu alladhi sammahu ahluhu bihi
The name in which his family called him is Abdullahi
This is his actual name
And I've taken upon myself a few years back
Just to test a lot of people with the name of Abu Bakr
I asked them
I said to them
What's the name of Abu Bakr?
And everybody or a lot of those who I asked they said Abu Bakr, Abu Bakr, Abu Bakr
And some said I don't know I thought his name was Abu Bakr
No his name is actually Abdullahi
And some scholars believe his name is Ateeq
Aisha said Ismuhu alladhi sammahu ahluhu bihi Abdullahi
The name that his family called him is Abdullahi
But this name Ateeq overtook Abdullahi
But his actual name is Abdullahi
Okay
And brothers and sisters it's very important Wallahi brothers
That we don't dismiss the biography and the life of these great Imams
These great individuals
These great personalities
Abu Bakr, al-Siddiq
The great scholar of this Ummah
The great companion of the Prophet, alayhi salatu was salam
It's really embarrassing that we don't know his name
We don't know his biography
We don't know who he was
RadhiAllahu ta'ala anhu
Ibn Abi Mulaika and other than him they said
Innama kana Ateeq laqabal lahoo
That Ateeq is actually not his name
His name is actually Abdullahi
But his nickname is Ateeq
So there's two views when it comes to Ateeq
Some scholars they mention his name is Ateeq
And some scholars they mention no Ateeq is a nickname of his
His real name is Abdullahi
Yahaib ibn Ma'inin he said
Laqabuhu Ateeq
His nickname is Ateeq
So the question here is why was he called Ateeq?
Yahaib ibn Ma'inin he said
li anna wajhahu kana jameela
The reason is because his face was very beautiful
Abu Bakr was a very handsome individual
RadhiAllahu ta'ala anhu
And that's why he was called
Ibn Al-Arabi he said
Al-Arabu taqoolu li shay'i
Idha balaghan nihayata fil jawda
Ateeq
Ibn Al-Arabi he said
That the Arabs when something reaches its fullest
When something reaches its complete version
In terms of its authenticity
And in terms of its purity and beauty
They call it Ateeq
And that's why he was called Ateeq
Abu Bakr radhiAllahu ta'ala anhu
He was awwala man aamana min al-rijali
He was the first
Wa kana radhiAllahu ta'ala anhu
Awwala man aamana min al-rijali
He was the first to believe from the men
There was no man that believed in the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Before Abu Bakr
Wa aslama abawahu
Abu Bakr his father and his mother both took Islam
Aisha radhiAllahu ta'ala anhu she said
Ma aslama abawa ahadi min al muhajireena illa Abu Bakr
From the muhajireen no one's
No one from the muhajireen
Whose two parents
Became Muslims other than Abu Bakr
Abu Bakr was the only muhajir
Whose two parents took Islam
Abu Bakr radhiAllahu anhu
Kana abya dh naheefan lateefan khafeefan aaridayni
Yaq dhibu shaybahu bil hinnayi wal katam
Abu Bakr was white
And he was very skinny
Naheef means he was skinny
RadhiAllahu ta'ala anhu
He also was khafeefan aaridayni
The two sides of his bed
Alid is the side of your bed was very thin
He didn't have thick hair very thin
Also he had some white hair
And what he used to do with that white hair
Is that he used to put hinnah on it
Abu Bakr radhiAllahu ta'ala anhu
And that's something brothers and sisters
That his father was instructed by the prophet
Alayhi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Abu Bakr he brought his father
Abiy Quhafa
Uthman ibn Abiy Quhafa
He brought him to Nabilah Muhammad
Remember when Abu Bakr brought his father
To the prophet Alayhi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And the prophet Alayhi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He saw Abiy Quhafa
His bed was completely white
And the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said to Abiy Quhafa
He said ghaiyyil shayb
Ya'ni alter and change your gray hair
Change it
Okay
Or your white hair
Change it
And the prophet said to him
Wajitani bis sawada
And stay away from using black
So Abu Bakr radhiAllahu anhu did the same
And he used to place on those white parts of his bed
He would place hinnah on it
RadhiAllahu ta'ala anhu
Urwa ibn al-Zubayr
He said
Aslama Abu Bakr
Urwa ibn al-Zubayr by the way
His mother is who?
Asma binti Abi Bakr
Urwa ibn al-Zubayr
His mother is Asma binti Abi Bakr
And Asma binti Abi Bakr is the daughter of Abi Bakr
Urwa ibn al-Zubayr ibn Awam was married to who?
Zubayr ibn Awam was married to Asma binti Abi Bakr
Zubayr ibn Awam
Okay
He was married to who?
He was married to Asma binti Abi Bakr
And Zubayr ibn Awam's mother was who?
Safiyah binti Abdul Muttalib
As Zubayr ibn Awam's mother was Safiyah binti Abdul Muttalib
Who is the prophet's what?
Aunty
So you can see the relationship
Here between the prophet's family and Abu Bakr's family at a very early stage
How they were connected and they were close to one another
And the prophet of course sallallahu alayhi wa sallam married the daughter of Abu Bakr
Aisha radiallahu ta'ala anha
And that again strengthened the bond between the two of them
So Urwa ibn al-Zubayr used to enter onto his aunty Aisha
That's his maternal aunty right?
So he used to enter onto her
And he knew a lot about his granddad
Urwa ibn al-Zubayr
He would know a lot about his granddad
So he said
He said Abu Bakr took Islam
The day in which he took Islam
Abu Bakr took Islam the day he took Islam
And he had 40,000 dinar
And it was mentioned that Abu Bakr radiallahu ta'ala
And he was a businessman
So he traded and he made business to Busra in Sham more than once
And it was also mentioned
And he spent his money on the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And for the sake of Allah
So what Urwa ibn al-Zubayr is trying to say is that
Abu Bakr he had 40,000 dinar
Brothers and sisters dinar is thousands of dollars
A lot of money
Abu Bakr was wealthy, extremely wealthy
And again he was a trader
He was a businessman
He used to go to Busra buy products and sell them and etc
And what did he do with his wealth that he had?
He gave all of it
To the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And in the cause of this religion
The prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said in a hadith
Al-imam Ahmad narrated
And al-imam al-nasaiyu narrated in his kubara
By the way al-imam al-nasaiyu
His sunan is two types
There's sunan al-kubara
And there's the one that's called al-mujtaba
The mujtaba is the sughra
Scholars dispute was it Nasa'i himself
Who actually summarized the book
And he summarized the sunan
And he made it into his sughra
And it's the sughra actually from the kubara
Because there are chapters in the sughra
That are not in the kubara
And who was it the person who summarized it?
There's discussion and dispute that the scholars mentioned
And when the scholars they say
Rawahu al-nasaiyu
Did they actually mean the kubara and not the sughra?
Or did they mean both?
What's the istilah of Rawahu al-nasaiyu?
That's another discussion for another place
ala kullin
The place whatever it may be
Ahmad narrated fee musnadihi in his musnad
And al-imam al-nasaiyu narrated in his kubara
That the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
He said
No wealth has benefited me the Prophet said
The way that the wealth of Abu Bakr benefited me
Abu Bakr's wealth benefited the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam greatly
Abu hurayrah narrated this
From the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
With this authentic chain
Amr ibn al-asir radiya allahu ta'ala anhu he mentioned
He said
Amr ibn al-asir said
Ya rasoola allahi
O messenger of allah
Ayyur rijali ahabu ilayka
Which of the men do you love?
All of these men that are sitting in front of you
That you know of
Who is the most beloved person to you?
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam he said
Abu Bakr
Abu Bakr was the most beloved person to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Al-imam al-tirmidhi authenticated
From the hadith of Abdullah ibn al-shqeeq
That he said
I said to Aisha
Abdullah ibn al-shqeeq said
O companions of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
He loved the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Abdullah ibn al-shqeeq
He asked our mother Aisha radiya allahu wa ta'ala about her
He said to her
Which of the companions of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Was most beloved to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Aisha without any hesitation she said
Abu Bakr
Then he asked her
Thumma man after that who?
Qalat Umar
She said Umar
Qalat
Qultu then I said to her after that
Abdullah ibn al-shqeeq said
Thumma man
Who after that?
Qalat she said
Abu Ubaidah
Qultu thumma man
And then I asked her
Who after that?
She went silent
Aisha radiya allahu wa ta'ala about her
That's what she mentioned
Ali radiya allahu wa ta'ala about him
This is something for the Rafidah and the Shia
Who tried to put down Abu Bakr and Umar
Who speak ill against the two of them
What did Ali radiya allahu wa ta'ala about him believe regarding Abu Bakr?
What was his view regarding Abu Bakr and Umar?
It was narrated that Ali radiya allahu wa ta'ala about him
He said
Ali radiya allahu wa ta'ala mentioned that the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam looked at Abu Bakr and Umar
And the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam he said
Tirmidhi authenticated this
Ibn Majan narrated it
Sheikh Nasir rahimallah authenticated it
In his silsil ahadith al-sahihah
That the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam he said
The word kuhul
Is the middle-aged person
Who isn't too old and not too young
These are the kuhul ahlul jannah
They're the masters
From the early
I mean from the Adam's time until the last person
Not just ummah Muhammad
I know before the previous nations as well
Except like in the prophets and the messengers
Prophets and the messengers no
They can't be better than the prophets and the messengers
Who's saying these brothers and sisters?
He mentioned that the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam said
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam he said
If I was to take a khalil
A khalil is a very close close high level friend
If I was to ever take anyone as a khalil
I would have taken Abu Bakr as a khalil
The Prophet said this
But he's my brother and he's my companion
In the sake of Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And Imam al-Bukhari narrated it without mentioning the word
In the name of Allah
Omar radiallahu anhu he said
Omar radiallahu anhu testified to this
He said
Abu Bakr is the master he's our master
He is the the best from amongst us
He is the most beloved one to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
He mentioned that the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam one day sat on the pulpit
The Prophet he said
The Prophet he spoke about an individual
Now this individual is ambiguous to all of the companions except Abu Bakr
All of the other companions don't know who this person is talking about is
So the Prophet said
The Prophet made it ambiguous
A slave
Allah gave that slave a choice
For Allah to give him the glimmers and the glitters of this world
What is with Allah
Allah gave a choice to this slave
Does he do you want the glimmers and the glitters of this dunya?
Do you want the kunus the treasures of this dunya or do you want the akhira?
So what did this slave choose?
He chose what was with Allah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
When the Prophet said that
All the companions are there
They're listening to the Prophet do the khutbah
Because the Prophet is standing on the pulpit
I mean sitting on the pulpit the Prophet is talking
So they're all listening
Out of nowhere
Abu Bakr started to cry
And his tears started to roll from Abu Bakr's eyes
And then he said
We have freed our mothers
And we will sacrifice our mothers and our fathers
For your message of Allah
We was taken back
We were gobsmacked
Mind boggled
What's taking place?
What's happening here?
We were fascinated
We were taken back by the statement of Abu Bakr and his reaction
Because the Prophet told us about a slave
Who was given a choice between this dunya and the hereafter
And the slave chose the hereafter
I mean that's a good slave
There's nothing
What's there to cry about?
What is there to be emotional about?
And what is there for him to say that statement?
What was the reason?
It was taken back
He just didn't understand the reason to all of this
But who was the Prophet referring to?
And who was the Prophet talking about?
The Prophet was talking about himself
The Prophet was referring to himself
It was him who he was talking about
In other words the Prophet was saying to the companions
I have been given the choice to stay with you guys in this dunya
And to remain in this dunya
And to enjoy the beauty of this dunya
Or to go to Allah and enjoy the akhirah
And the companionship of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
And the angels and the righteous slaves of Allah
And I have chosen to be with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
So Abu Bakr knew that the Prophet was going to pass away
He was going to die
And that is why Abu Sa'id Khundri said
And the people started to say amongst themselves
Look at that Sheikh
That old man Abu Bakr
The Prophet is telling us about
The Prophet told us about a person
Who was given the choice of this dunya and the hereafter
And this person chose the hereafter
And Abu Bakr cries and says
We free our mother and our father for you
Abu Sa'id then said
The Prophet was the one that was given that choice
And look underline this point
Look at this statement that came out of the mouth of Abu Sa'id Khundri
And the companions they testified to this
What did they say?
They said
Abu Bakr was the most knowledgeable one
In this ummah there's no one more knowledgeable than Abu Bakr
The one who knew the Prophet the most
Hands down Abu Bakr
No argument, no disputes in that matter
That's why he was the only one who led the prayer
After the Prophet's death
And the Prophet said to his daughter Aisha
He said to her go and come on
And instruct Abu Bakr to lead the people in the congregation
Because Abu Bakr is the most knowledgeable one
Did the Prophet not say
Let the one who knows the most Quran lead the people
Of course he said that Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
And Abu Bakr had the most Quran
And he had more understanding of the Quran
Abu Bakr knew the Prophet's body features more than anybody else
One day Abu Bakr started to cry
And then he said
Normally when you're with somebody every single day
You won't recognize the changes that happen to them
In order to understand a change that happens to a person's feature
You would have to be somehow some way absent from them
For a period of time
And so when you come back to them you realize the differences
Abu Bakr was with the Prophet every time
But after that he realized the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam's changes
And that could only occur
If the person is always paying attention to the person
And that's what Abu Bakr was doing
He was consistently and continuously observing the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
And monitoring him
Because he wanted to live his life like the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
He wanted to be
Like the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
In everything he did
That's why Abu Bakr was the most knowledgeable
He knew the Prophet's words the way he spoke
When you're very close to someone
As they say you can finish off his sentences
Because you know what he means
You're very close
You become one
Abu Bakr knew the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Even when the Prophet spoke ambiguously
And was direct in things
Abu Bakr understood it
If you look at the relationship the him and the Prophet had
You would be amazed with how it was
At times
Abu Bakr would give fatwa in the presence of the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
One moment a person came to the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
And then he told him a dream
And the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Listened to the dream
And the person said
Ya Rasulullah what's the interpretation of that dream
Abu Bakr said
Ya Rasulullah can I have a try
Can I try
Allahu Akbar
The Prophet said he tried
Abu Bakr went and he answered it
Then the Prophet said
Asabta ba'dan wa akhtata ba'dan
Half of it on the part of it you got it right
And half of it on the part of it you got it wrong
That was the relationship between the Prophet and Abu Bakr
So he realized what the Prophet was saying
Where he was going at
Where he was going with this conversation
He knew the Prophet was saying to the Sahabahs
Bye I'm leaving
I'm no longer going to be with you
And that's why Abu Bakr rabi Allah and who he cried
Then the Prophet look what he said
After he saw Abu Bakr cry
And after he saw Abu Bakr say that statement
We free our mothers and our fathers for you
The Prophet looked at Abu Bakr and he said
The Prophet said
The person who has the
Who's bestowed the most favors onto me
The person who has favored me the most
In my companionship
In his wealth is Abu Bakr
The Prophet said this
The person who has favored me the most
For the one who has done the most for me
Is Abu Bakr
And what lacking in his companionship
Of course he did
When no one else traveled with the Prophet
He traveled with him
He did the hijrah with the Prophet
When the Prophet was the most wanted man
At that time the most wanted man
They put a bounty on his head
Everybody would generally run away from a wanted man
Abu Bakr accompanied the Prophet
And it was Abu Bakr's family
Who served and took care of the Prophet
It was Abdul Rahmani ibn Abi Bakr
Who was looking out for the Prophet and Abu Bakr
If anybody was coming
He was going to Quraysh and listening to them
What they were saying in their assemblies
He was listening and finding out
By the way Abdul Rahmani ibn Abi Bakr
This time was not a Muslim
He was not a Muslim
The son of Abu Bakr
But ma'a dhalika
He came back to the Prophet and Abu Bakr
And said Quraysh said this
Quraysh want to do this
Quraysh are planning this
And the person who's bringing the food
To the Prophet and climbing the mountain
And ripped her cloth
And put the food into it
Was none other than Asmaa bint Abi Bakr
Abu Bakr's daughter
It was the whole entire family
Who served this religion
That's why the Prophet said
The person who has favored me the most
In his companionship
And in his wealth is Abu Bakr
And if I was to ever take someone as a Khalil
I would have taken Abu Bakr as a Khalil
But the reason I can't is
Brotherhood in Islam we already have
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
Don't let a space
Within the Masjid that's open except Abi Bakr
The hadith of Imam al-Bukhari
And Muslim both narrated
She said
When the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
When he was on his deathbed
He said to his wife Aisha
The Prophet spoke to Aisha
And he said to her
Go and call Abi Bakr for me
He said to her
Go out and speak to Abi Bakr for me
And call him for me
And your brother so I can write something for you
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said
I'm going to write something for you
I fear that a person will come and hope
And he would say
And a sayer might say
Allah refuses
And the believers except Abu Bakr
That's what I fear the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
So the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He requested and the Sahabahs they quarreled amongst themselves on this issue
A woman, she came to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
She spoke to the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
The Prophet commanded her something
The woman then said
The Prophet said to the woman
Come back to me tomorrow
The woman she said
What about if I come back tomorrow and I don't find you
What shall I do
If you're not alive
I don't find you and I can't see you
What shall I do
He said
If you don't find me
Come to Abu Bakr
Yeah, and if you can't find me
Go to Abu Bakr
Bughari and Muslim both narrated
Abdullah ibn Mas'ud and he mentioned
When the Prophet passed away
Ansar and the Muhajireen
As you all know
They thought
Especially the Ansar
They thought to themselves
Now that the Prophet passed away
We can choose and appoint someone from amongst ourselves
So they said
Ansar they said to the Muhajireen
You guys appoint your own leader
And we're going to appoint our own leader
And he said to them
This is when they went to Bani Saqifa
They tried to have the Pledge of Allegiance amongst themselves
Ansar
They entered onto them
And Umar spoke to them
Umar said
Don't you know
That the Prophet
In the Prophet commanded Abu Bakr
He led the people in the prayer
Faaayukum tatibu nafsu
Whose nafs can let him
To go before Abu Bakr
Nabila Muhammad appointed Abu Bakr
As the Imam in the Salah
The best action
After the Shahadah attain
The greatest thing a person can come with
Is the Salah, right?
The Prophet entrusted Abu Bakr with the prayer
And made him the leader
Who then from amongst you
Has the audacity and the courage in him
Or his nafs can even allow him
And yet taqaddama Aba Bakr to go before Abu Bakr
Look at the Ansar
They were righteous people
Faaqalu na'udhu billahina taqaddama Aba Bakr
They said
Wallah we seek refuge in Allah to go before Abu Bakr
Brothers and sisters
I'm going to tell you guys a story
Sahabatun Rasulillahi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Were human beings
Our companions
The companions of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Were human beings
Sometimes there was conflicts and
Disputes and argumentations might happen between them
But let's look at how they settled it
I'm going to mention a story of Abu Bakr and Umar
And a conflict that happened between the two of them
And Imam al-Bukhari narrated it in Sahih
From the Hadith of Abu Darda
He said
There was between Abu Bakr and Umar
A discussion and a dialogue
Something happened
Abu Bakr must have said something that hurt Abu Bakr
And Umar got angry
So Abu Bakr said something
That angered Umar
Now Umar what did he do?
Umar stood up and he got up
And he just walked away from Abu Bakr
Then Abu Bakr stood up and he ran after Umar
And he asked him please forgive me
I'm sorry what I said
I shouldn't have said it
Umar ignored Abu Bakr
He went into his house and he locked
He closed his door
And he slammed the door on the face of Abu Bakr
Ignored what he said
He got the door and he slammed it in the face of Abu Bakr
Brothers and sisters
A discussion happened between the two of them
Abu Bakr said something that upset Umar
Umar got angry
As soon as Umar stood up and walked off
Abu Bakr got after him and ran after him
Look at the manners of the Sahabas
And how conflict was settled
Umar ignored Abu Bakr
He's furious
He's angry
But he doesn't say a word of disrespect to Abu Bakr
Because that's his senior
It's his older brother
But he's angry with him
So Umar what he does
He goes into his house and he closes the door
Now Abu Bakr can't enter the house of Umar
Without his permission
And Umar has not given him the permission
Brothers and sisters
We ponder and we contemplate here
And we think
Abu Bakr didn't say
Oh well I tried my best
You didn't want to accept my forgiveness
And he didn't walk away
Wallah
He thought what can I possibly do
To get the forgiveness of my brother
Abu Bakr thought
He said to himself
What can I possibly do
To get the forgiveness of my brother
I've wronged him
I've said something that upset him
He got angry
I tried to ask him for forgiveness
He didn't accept it
What can I possibly do
That could insha'Allah make him forgive me
He said if I go to the Prophet
And I speak to the Prophet
Maybe the Prophet can influence Abu Umar
To forgive me
So Abu Bakr went to the Prophet
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
The Messenger Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
When he saw Abu Bakr from far
The Prophet
The Prophet was sitting with his companions
And he saw from Abu Bakr walking from far
He could see him
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And then the Prophet
Because he knows Abu Bakr
The same way Abu Bakr knew the Prophet deeply
And studied the Prophet
The Prophet was like that to Abu Bakr as well
The Prophet
And Abu Bakr had a very strong bond
So when the Prophet saw him from far
The Prophet said
He said
Amma sahibukum hadha faghad ghamar
He said as your
He stood with the companions of the Prophet
He said as for your friend
And Abu Bakr
Faghad ghamara means he went into a discussion
A heated discussion
And something went wrong in that discussion
The Prophet said
Ya'ni he's upset
Umar today
Abu Bakr's face does not look like he's pleased
Something has upset Abu Bakr
The Prophet said
Abu Dardak mentioned
Now Abu Bakr is walking to the Prophet
Alayhi salatu wa salam
Umar at home thinks about what he did
How he closed the door in front of his brother Abu Bakr
Look at the bond between these Sahabahs
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
There's a lot we can learn from it
Umar he realized he said
I have upset my brother
I have hurt my brother
And I shouldn't have done that
He asked for my forgiveness
And I should have accepted it
So he got up
And he went out of his house
And he came to the house of Abu Bakr
When he came to the house of Abu Bakr
He was told that Abu Bakr is not here
And as soon as he was told
Abu Bakr is not here
He knew where Abu Bakr would be
So he said
I'm going to go to the Prophet
Alayhi salatu wa salam
As for Abu Bakr
He came to the Prophet
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And then he told the Prophet
Alayhi salatu wa salam
What took place and what happened
As soon as Abu Bakr told
The Prophet Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
What happened between him and Umar
Look what happened
The narration he mentions
Fa ghadiba Rasululayhi salallahu alayhi wa sallam
Another narration mentions
Fata ma'ara wajwa Rasululayhi salallahu alayhi wa sallam
The Prophet's face changed
Alayhi salatu wa salam
The Prophet became very angry
Wa ja'ala Abu Bakrin yaqul
Abu Bakr kept saying
Wallahi ya Rasulallah
O Messenger of Allah
I was the one who wronged him
I was the one who oppressed him
Another rivaia mentions
That Abu Bakr was standing
And when he saw the Prophet's face change
Fajatha ala rukbatayhi
Fell on his knees on the ground
And then he said
Ya Rasulallah
I was the one who wronged him
It wasn't Umar's fault
But the Prophet Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Had didn't listen to Abu Bakr
And the Prophet waited for Umar to come
And as soon as Umar reached
And the face of the Prophet Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Fully changed
The Prophet said the following to Umar
And to all of the companions
Something that changed
The entire companions
The way they looked at Abu Bakr
The Prophet said to them all
Are you not going to leave my friend for me?
The Prophet is talking to Abu Bakr
He's talking to Uthman
He's talking to Ali
He's talking to Khalid min Walid
He's talking to Ashraf al Mubashirin
All of them are sitting there
And the Prophet said to them
Are you guys not going to leave my friend for me?
As though the rest are not companions
As though the rest are not his sahib
We refer to all the other sahabahs
The companions of the Prophet
But the Prophet said
Are you not going to leave my friend alone for me?
And then the Prophet reminded them something
The Prophet said
I said to all of you guys
All of you guys here
And unto Quraish
I said to all of you people
O people
I am a messenger sent from Allah to all of you
All of you guys said to me you're a liar
All of you guys disbelieved in me
Abu Bakr was the only man who said to me
You told the truth
He believed me at a time when none of you believed in me
He chose to believe in me
The Prophet also said
He helped me and he aided me through his family
And his wealth
He gave me everything
Abu Darda mentioned in that narration
From that day onwards
No one ever dared to speak back to Abu Bakr
No one dared
Abu Bakr reached that level
At that level
The Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
He said in another narration
Every single one of you
The Prophet said to his companions
Every single one of you sitting here
Whatever you've done for me
I've done for you in return
I've repaid you back
He said
Only Abu Bakr
I have left Allah to reward him
I can't too much
What Abu Bakr has done for me
He said
When Abu Bakr was appointed
The Muslim leader
And he was made in charge
He used to go to the market
Abu Bakr
And there were thobes
That he had on his shoulders
Ya'ni Cloths
He had on his shoulders
And he was making money
He's the khalif of the Muslims
The leader of the Muslims
He wanted to make money
For his family
It wasn't using the wealth of the Muslims
So Umar and Abu Ubaidah
Two people who were promised general life
They saw Abu Bakr in this situation
They spoke to him
They said
What are you doing Abu Bakr?
Where can I provide my children from?
Where am I going to bring risk for my children?
Abu Bakr has his control
In baytumalil muslimin
The Muslim's wealth is in his possession
And the response he gives to Umar and Abu Ubaidah
He says to both of them
How am I going to provide for my children?
They said
Go and let's write for you
Something from the baytumalil muslimin
Let's give you a portion
Something that you can have
They made something for him
That he could use
For his children
So he can govern the Muslims
Abu Bakr was very knowledgeable
When it came to the lineage of Quraysh
He read very well
And he was in regards to the companions
After the Prophet
He was the most knowledgeable
When it came to interpretation of dreams
And he was also a well-spoken person
Eloquent in his speech
He could give powerful reminders
And sermons
He said from some of his sheikhs
He said
The public speakers from the companions
Were Abu Bakr and Ali
Abu Bakr and Ali were well-spoken
Both of them
He mentioned
One day he went onto the pulpit
And he said
Abu Bakr
He said
The most virtuous person
In this Ummah
After the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Is Abu Bakr
Omar said
This is the time when he was the Muslim Khalifa
He said
If anyone says other than that
That there's someone better than Abu Bakr
I've told all of you guys now
Omar is saying
That person is a muftarin
He's a liar and a fruit star
I'm going to lash him
The lashing I will lash a person
Who accuses a person of something
An imam with Dhaabiyyu he says
When he brings up those narrations
And the qawla of Ali
Ibn Abi Talib Ibn Azwaw
Where Ali said
Ali said this
That the most virtuous person
After the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
Is Abu Bakr
And after him is Omar
Abdullah Ibn Ahmad
Narrated in the Zawahid of his father
And Tabarani narrated in his Mu'ajam al-Kabir
Dhaabiyyu after bringing that in his kitab
He says
Dhaabiyyu saying this
By Allah I swear he's saying Dhaabiyyu
Ali did say that
And this has reached
Multitude narration from him
That Ali said this
Because Ali said this
On the pulpit of Kufa
When there was Shi'a trying to come out
And trying to push Ali too high
Ali said this on the pulpit
So they can hear this
They'll be saying
May Allah's continuous curse be upon the Rafidah
Who's more ignorant than them
Ali Ibn Abi Talib Ibn also said
The one who has the most reward
When it comes to the Mus'haf
That we read from is Abu Bakr
He was the first one who compiled the Quran
In its two covers
He covered it
He brought it together
That is some of the virtues of Abu Bakr
And what type of person he was
As our mother Aisha mentioned
Her father was passing away
And she said the following lines of poetry
In the presence of her father
She said
She read these lines of poetry
When she was praising her father
And how great and noble he is
And how his situation is right now
And how he's passing away
But her father
He didn't accept that
He said
The matter is not like that my daughter
What you should say is
Death has come
Death has now come
When death came to him
His daughter Aisha was with him
She mentioned
When Abu Bakr his death came to him
He said to me
He said to her
He said to his daughter Aisha
On his death bed
I know my daughter
The family of Abu Bakr
They do not have
The only thing that they have is this
Just a
Milk can be taken from it
Just one
And just one slave boy
If I die
Give this to Omar
When she gave it to Omar
He said
When Omar was given it
He has
Burdened
The ones who come after him
And he never possessed anything from the dunya
And he has now shown us
Even at his last moments
What he was trying to say was
This wealth is not mine
My daughter
This is only for the baytul man
Muslimin
Give it to the next khalifa
Let him
It's his
When he passed away
When he was on his death bed
Abu Bakr requested for his wife
Asma bint Umaysin to wash him
And she's not able to do it
She can use the help of
Abdulrahman ibn Abi Bakr
And he requested as Al Qasim mentioned
He asked and he requested
That he be buried next to the prophet
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And Aisha radiallahu alayhi wa sallam
She did that for him
And he was buried next to the prophet
Alayhi wa sallam
And today that's where he's placed
Radiallahu ta'ala anhu
Abu Bakr radiallahu alayhi wa sallam
He died
He died when he was 63 years of age
And he was
He was the khalifa of the muslim
For two years and 100 days
And in two years and 100 days
Radiallahu ta'ala anhu
I'm going to stop there
Insha'allahu ta'ala
Anything which I have said
That was wrong or incorrect
It's from me and shaytan
And Allah and his messenger
Are both free from it
Subhanaka allahum wa bi hamdi
Ashadu an la ilaha illallah
Astaghfiru ka wa atubu ilayhi
Assalamu alaykum wa rahmatullahi wa barakatuhu
How can you do a two second action
Right now
That will give you a share of the reward
Of everything we're doing
On this youtube channel
Simple
Like this video
And click subscribe
Why?
It will allow youtube to recommend our videos
To other users
And imagine the huge amount of reward
That could be waiting for you
On the day of judgement
If you did that
With a sincere intention
Of spreading the deen of Allah
You'll be rewarded
For every single person
Who benefits from one of our videos
As a result of your like or subscribe
That's an easy two second action
That you definitely don't want to miss out on
Do it now
Click like and subscribe
And don't forget to make that intention